so i'll be the first to admit that
constellations and nebulae they never
look like
what they're supposed to look like right
or their name
says they should look like it's like the
ancient greeks had never seen
a real fish or even a real woman
for that matter but this is the
christmas tree cluster and it
actually does look like a christmas tree
everything from the real life star at
the very very
tippity top through the triangle
structure
all the way down making it like a tree
in the trunk at
the bottom but i know that all of you at
home
will be sat there thinking but becky
christmas trees are green
so why is this christmas tree
pink
now it's coming round to my favorite
time of year i'm a veritable little tiny
tim at christmas so i figured
i had to do at least one christmas
themed video this december
but speaking of christmas the eagle eyed
among you
might have noticed my t-shirt
that's right i finally have merch
there are three different designs which
you can get on a range of different
items for adults kids toddlers
everything
you've got the galaxy in her eyes
classic dr becky logo that i'm wearing
it's honestly absolutely stunning
you've got the blooper t space is hard
words are harder never a truer statement
on this channel
and my favorite favorite favorite
t-shirt
the toenail moon t the moon for which
has been designed in
a pointillism style or a dot art which
looks
really cool when it's printed honestly i
love wearing this tee
now all of these t-shirts have been
designed by my sister
megan she's a fabulous artist and
graphic designer in fact the toenail
moon on the toenail moon tea which
actually comes from a piece of art that
i commissioned from her from my living
room it's so beautiful it's the faces of
the moon
if you like it as much as i do you can
also get that from her etsy store
which i'll link in the description below
if i'm being completely honest with you
a lot here i
feel so weird and awkward
like launching a merch line as a
scientist you know i've spoken before on
this channel about how
i'm very careful with what sponsorships
i take so i'm very aware that
you know as a scientist i have this
trusted role in society to to always
speak the truth
and always tell you like it is and then
also communicate with you you know
what we've been finding from the
research that we've been doing you know
that's funded by you the taxpayers
so it feels really strange to me to be
then like okay and i'll go buy my merch
but at the end of the day i mean so many
of you over the past two years have
reached out to me asking if i have a
patreon
you can contribute to or memberships on
youtube channel now usually that comes
with extra content and i just don't have
time to make that with the research i'm
doing as well as youtube
and i'd feel so wrong taking it without
any sort of
thing to give back so this way i figured
you get something tangible in return and
the main
reason i'm doing this is for my sister
she is a
recent graphic design graduate who had a
job
finally lined up after graduating she
was searching for like nine months
and then that job got took away from her
because of the pandemic and i'm just so
proud of the way that she's you know
just picked herself up she set up her
own business and she started selling
stuff on
etsy so the majority of the profits from
the sales my merch are actually going to
my sister megan to help support her
through the pandemic so know that yes
you're supporting me and my channel by
buying this but you're also
supporting a local business owner in the
uk
as well so it's all good and now
we can get back to the science all right
so the christmas tree cluster is a big
open star cluster part of a larger
nebula called
ngc2264 that's all that sort of pink
gas behind the stars and the bigger
complex of ngc 2264 also contains
the co-nebula the snowflake cluster
and also the fox fur nebula as well so
it's just a little wintry theme
all around really this image is a region
of the sky about
30 light years across and it's about 2
600 light years away in our galaxy the
milky way
and if you're in the northern hemisphere
and you've got binoculars or a telescope
or a good camera
you should be able to spot this thing
because it's really really bright and
it's a lovely thing to look out for you
know mid-december when the nights are
long
and it's getting towards christmas it's
just up and across from orion so if you
find orion's belt
and you go up from there to the red star
beetlejuice in the top left
you've then got bellatrix opposite it in
the top right of orion
if you draw a line between those two
stars and follow that
line so that about the same distance
past them again
and that's where you'll find the
christmas tree star cluster so that's
where you should point your telescope or
your binoculars or your camera if you
want to try out some astro photography
maybe
as well if you do send them to me on
social media because i always
want to see that and keep an eye out on
my socials too because i'm going to try
and spot this throughout december you
know what i'm going to put more time off
work
and i'll post it there if i manage it if
you do manage to spot it you'll be
following in the footsteps of william
herschel himself who first recorded
the position of the star cluster back in
and then two years later recorded that
it had that sort of you know gas cloud
behind it that nebula
actually at christmas time as well so
perfect little story for christmas now
along with the cutesy connection to
christmas the christmas tree cluster and
ngc 2264 as a whole are really
important scientifically especially in
our understanding of
young stars and how they form and what
their properties are with this
huge slew of scientific papers written
about ngc 2264
on this topic over the years now all
that work might seem a little bit
niche to some like focusing so much on
just the young stars in this one cluster
like what's with the big
picture on but it's actually really
important to understand
you know when we have a cloud of gas
like this how much light
do the newborn stars give off how much
light
does dust in that nebula block and also
just
how many stars of each mass will you
form so the distribution
of the different types of stars you form
out of a cloud of gas what is
that because that all of that
information
feeds into our big picture models of
you know what's the amount of light that
we're getting
from a collection of stars so like in an
entire
galaxy which is a collection of what
like a billion if not
a hundred billion stars in some cases
right we want to be able to say okay
from how much
light we're receiving from this galaxy
ie how bright we observe it to be
how many stars does that mean are there
and therefore you know how much mass in
stars
is there you know how much does the
galaxy weigh if you will and that's so
important to know because we want to
compare that
to our measurements of the total mass
the amount of mass that
gravity says is there so from the
influence of that galaxy on all the
things
around it we can work out how much mass
is there and okay not just stars but
gas and dust and maybe black holes and
all the other things we can't see
like dark matter but we have to know
really well how much we can convert sort
of light
to mass in stars by studying things like
the christmas tree cluster that tell us
you know how much light do
newborn stars give off which tend to be
the brightest
so it's funny how only by studying
things like this
can we make confident cosmological
statements about how much dark matter
there is
in our universe like i love that about
astrophysics that you know just from
asking you know how part of those
newborn stars do you end up making
statement about dark matter like it all
just interlinks eventually
it's all connected but the big question
in all the christmas tree aficionados
lips is
why is this christmas tree pink not
green like you would expect the
christmas tree
to be so this kind of nebula where stars
are forming has a lot of
hydrogen gas in it hydrogen gas is star
formation fuel
after all and when the uv light from
these brand new stars that are formed
hits that hydrogen it causes the
electrons orbiting the nucleus in
some of these hydrogen atoms to jump
up to orbit in another energy level
there's only actually certain amounts of
energies that an electron can have
that would sort of put it in a happy
orbit around the center of a nucleus
in an atom that's essentially what
quantum mechanics tells us
so the orbits of electrons are always
separated by a very very specific amount
of energy that
never changes within a specific element
which means that when the electron
eventually drops back down to where it
should be it actually gives out energy
in the form of
light it's always the same amount of
energy and therefore it's always the
same
wavelength or color of light
for hydrogen that wavelength is 656.28
nanometers or 0.6 micrometers or
whichever you prefer
and the color of that wavelength is
red as you probably guessed by now so
what we can do when we take images of
nebula like this that we know
contain lots of hydrogen gas is we can
take them through a filter that
only lets in that specific wavelength or
color
of light and then we get all of the
detail of where
all of the gas is that's giving out that
light it means that detail doesn't get
lost to all of the background light or
the background glow of the stars
that are nearby it we can then color
that image that's taken through that
special filter the color that we
know it's supposed to be the color of
that wavelength of light which in
hydrogen's case this is a very pretty
reddish pink color and so we layer it on
top
of the more generic image we have of the
stars and we can see
both of those things than the light from
the stars and the light from the gas
as well and so that my friends is how we
end up not with a classic
green christmas tree but with an even
more spectacular
quantum hydrogen pink christmas tree
could you just not go to sleep right now
why do you just keep going to sleep
computer i want the pretty picture
now along with the christmas connection
the christmas tree cluster and
ngc two six four
you think i'd remember that but i've
said it so many times like edited
like in an enti in
an entire i am